Okay, I'm on.
Well, let's start straight away.
You had mentioned something to me.
I'm very interested in Hayden O'Moore, and you described him as a comet across the sky.
And I'm understanding, of course, that I'm talking to a lot of people on the record, too, so you're not alone in the wilderness.
This is not an unknown phenomenon in any field of collectors.
It's somebody who comes, makes a big splash.
Look, it's not an unknown in any field of collectors.
Somebody comes in with a lot of money, makes a big splash.
All these guys are from the savings and loans.
They're the same thing.
Now, the only difference between this guy, Paul, in Florida... I'm way ahead of you.
This guy, Paul, in Florida...
Affected the market the same way that haven't more did the fact that Gabe that that Paul is a is a How did he affect the market if you only collected magic in magic?
I mean, I hate the wall.
It's like the books.
Well, I'm saying You've got two different people mixed up California is not Paul.
I'm sorry.
The guy in California is Ruben
Okay, there's a Florida, it's called First Bank Corp, Florida.
I don't know about this case?
It has nothing, it has, it has only peripherally to do with books.
I'm saying in all fields of collecting.
Okay, Haven O'Moore happened to be a highly intelligent man who had a very specific goal in mind.
But the effect on the market has nothing to do what his objective or intelligence or his background is.
There's a guy came in with a ton of money, collected for 10 years, and then disappeared.
Now, the fact that a guy in Florida or in California or in Alaska did the same thing, but did it for dishonest purposes or did it, okay, doesn't matter the net effect on the market, whether it's the book market or the stamp market or the furniture market, is the same thing.
And this has happened over the centuries.
You could probably go back and find case after case of people who've come in like a comet, you know, $6 million, $10 million in the book market is an enormous amount of money if that's spent over a short period of time.
Haven, did he come here himself, or did he buy through agents?
No, originally he came here himself, and then he got too big for his britches, too big for swan.
He started buying at swan.
I knew him.
What kinds of things did he buy?
Very fine, very early, very esoteric books.
He was not a, I mean, he knew, in a sense, he knew what he was doing.
He was buying superb copies, paying top dollar for superb material, not all of it very obvious.
I mean, you know, esoteric material, arcane material, obscure material,
but always the best.
Can you give me a rough idea of when this might have been?
I really can't.
I would guess in the 72, 73, something like that.
It was not too long after I took over Swan.
I was so impressed.
I mean, I was three or four years as head of Swan.
This guy comes in with his glamorous wife, and he's buying all these books that I've cured you with in here sometimes.
Did you talk so much?
Sure.
What was your impression of it?
Weird, you know.
just a weird guy but look we we were at a uh this is off the record now we were at a uh that's all right we were at a party the other day we went we went to a party the other day and we met the head of the uh american manuscripts department at 70s she's terrific but she's a weird lady so i you can't you can't make a judgment about somebody's it's the kind of person that i find difficult to talk to at a party so you meet somebody in here
We can go back.
You meet Haven O'Moorn here.
He's a strange guy.
You know, the fact that he's a strange guy doesn't mean anything coming from me.
You said last time, though, he scared you almost.
Well, it was... And I don't mean that you were... No, no, no, but you're... Scared in a sense that... You get scared because here you're dealing with somebody and you have no idea what's going through his head.
It's like somebody coming into a shoe store and you're trying to sell him a pair of shoes and he's talking about...
how leather is manufactured.
He won't tell you what he wants, blue shoes or brown shoes.
He sort of wishes you weren't there.
It's that kind of a weirdness, you know, which is sort of otherworldly.
Did he generally buy what he wanted?
Oh, yeah, I always wanted.
I mean, very rarely was he the undercutter.
I'm not asking for specifics.
It's a long time ago.
He came to buy.
He didn't come to shop.
I'm wondering if he was buying books at that time for the garden collection, which is, you know, 314 lots.
This was his own collection.
I suppose we could go over what he bought from us and go over the garden sale and match it up.
Do you have stuff in the gardens?
I'm almost sure we did.
I know I was a little bit put out because in the introduction or in the provenance, Swan Galleries was not mentioned.
But I saw at least one book that he bought from us.
And, you know, they may have traded up also.
So he may have bought things from us and traded them up over the years.
Yeah, and he really wasn't buying an option after a while.
He was buying from Fleming and Colin Franklin and... Yeah.
But, you know, you're going to end up with the same problem that I'm having is you're trying to... I think you're trying to get a handle on somebody who's otherworldly, who doesn't bear any weight.
He's not even around.
I mean, I could talk to his wife last week, which is extraordinary.
You're trying to get... You can't get an interview with him?
He said he's having therapy someplace.
That's off the record.
If I went back over the history of Swan, I've been here now for about 22 years.
If I went back over the history of Swan, there's probably a dozen people that are characters in one way or another.
Homor is just another character.
how about you you had mentioned coke for instance there's another one here who influenced the market yeah he was a comic and and and getting now he sold everything off he's got it you know but when he came he didn't fill some market to the extent that people were actually orchestrating sales to appeal to him now i was here about a month ago and he said talk to you in a month about carl lube uh what's going to happen what's happening there uh it's a very it's a very for the moment it's a mixed up situation uh
You go to the morgue.
There was an article in the L.A.
Times.
No, that sounds different.
There was an article in the L.A.
Times within the past week, I believe.
All about the situation.
And in fact, I have a calling to the Times.
I'm trying to call the reporter.
And what the Resolution Trust... You know the story.
It's now in the hands of the RTC.
Well, the Mulholland collection is now in the hands of the RTC.
The RTC went out and solicited bids on how to dispose of the collection.
We've submitted a bid.
We've submitted a bid and gave a complete outline of how to dispose of the collection.
And now, as far as I know, ours is the number one bid.
But they're trying to sell it on their own.
And they're trying to sell it as a collection?
Yeah, I know they're trying to sell it.
But I mean, if they sell it to you, the understanding is probably that you're going to... Our bid was really a proposal on how to dispose of the collection.
And the proposal is a very simple proposal, which is spend six months trying to sell it intact, and if that fails, then you must sell it at auction.
And we want to handle both ends of it.
Let's talk about that for a while, because that is kind of interesting to me, your feelings about that.
Do you feel that this should be kept as a collection?
Absolutely.
And why is that?
Because, primarily because it has been very well maintained, very well catalogued, material is accessible, and it's in one central place.
It started out as a mishmash of material six years ago, but they spent six years curating it properly.
So what you've now got is a research archive, a really good research archive.
If you went to any library and you wanted to find out about vaudeville performers,
I don't know, people who... Ricky explained the collection to me.
I'm familiar with the collection.
Okay.
But where else could you go?
And in theory, you want to find the names of all performers whose act consisted of farting, balancing a banana, and being on a high wire at the same time.
They'd have it for you.
They could access it.
I mean, my point is, this stuff is duplicated, replicated elsewhere.
But what you've got is, it's all in one room.
Well, it's centralized.
It's centralized.
It's maintained, it's accessible, and it's indexed.
So why break it up?
Okay, but now this is a very, this is a surprising attitude for an auctioneer to take, isn't it?
I'm an American citizen, after all.
No, I mean, what, you can't, an auctioneer, by definition, isn't just after the higher prices.
There's certain, if somebody comes in, there's an auction going on in, uh,
In New York, later this month, or maybe early November, there's an entire correspondence between Greta Garbo and Cecil Beaton.
Nine letters.
Now, they're selling it as nine separate letters.
And I think that's wrong.
Because it represents the entire correspondence between Greta Garbo and Cecil Beaton.
Now, I can make a point in their case, neither Greta Garbo nor Cecil Beaton are great historical figures, and they don't mean anything in...
You know, the development of culture and the great scheme of things.
Who's to say?
Right.
But supposing it was George Washington to Alexander Hamilton, or Madison to Jefferson, okay?
So there are certain things that shouldn't be broken up, by definition.
If, to follow up to the extreme, every color plate book that we get, then we should break up, because the parts are worth more than the whole, and we don't do that.
That Mulholland collection, I have a great affinity for the Mulholland collection,
We've handled it twice and once now.
A great affection or affinity?
Affinity and affection.
I like the feel.
And it really shouldn't be broken up.
It's like carrying a family apart.
So let's assume, and also I understand that I'm several months away from publication or anything, let's assume you get the commission to
to handle this we probably won't we probably will no we probably will not we are now we are now off the record we are now in fact considering suing the rtc because they've taken our proposal and they're implementing it themselves okay which i think is both wiki and our infuriating our proposal was to do exactly what they're doing they may in fact be using our publicity releases to publicize the collection
Thanks a lot.
That's your government.
Okay.
Is Ricky out of this entirely?
No, no.
It's a joint proposal between Ricky Jay and Swan Daly.
But I mean, is Ricky out of immediate supervision of the collection?
Only because... Oh, yes.
And he's making a movie.
He's in Baltimore.
I didn't say that, but he was curator of the movie.
Yeah, oh, he's been out of that since January.
But that's gone.
He was fired.
Yeah.
He was fired, or he was laid off when the bank went into a receivership.
This is probably one of the few assets in the savings and loan assets worth more.
But that's another reason we proposed what we did.
Is that true?
Do you think that's true?
The asset is worth more.
I'm sure there are others.
But the RTC was, again, don't get me off on this, but basically they were very keen on the idea of doing this because they would get favorable publicity from the fact that here is something which is worth more than the bank paid for it,
And not only are they going to make money for the taxpayer, but they're trying to keep it intact.
So they're being good guys from three different points of view.
So they're doing it on their own.
They're negotiating with the Library of Congress, and they're negotiating with entertainers.
They put it out on CBS and ABC and the Los Angeles Times.
It's been widely publicized directly through there.
And the only time she had a piece, and we'll go to the public library for a minute.
I might just look it up.
Within the past week, if you get a copy, would you send it for me?
Sure.
Where would it be, you think, on the business page?
I think it was a front-page article.
Front-page article.
Because I know they get me all the times over here.
Well, I want to speak to the reporter anyway, because I want to get a copy of the press release.
Anyway, you can do that.
I might even talk to the reporter myself.
His name is Bates, I heard.
Bates?
Apparently he's a jerk.
As are most reporters.
I'm not a reporter anymore.
I'm a writer.
There's a difference.
I think it's based, I had it written down someplace, because I was trying to reach him.
Did you know this fellow, Lula?
I met him two or three times.
Did he impress you as a book collector, or was he really a magic fanatic?
A magic fanatic.
That's very nice.
That's an inky-pinky.
And that piece that you had given me is that he's an amateur victor.
I've met him a couple times.
He's out of this entirely.
He's got no say in what happened.
He's a personal banker to do.
I mean, he's in deep shit.
It is interesting that this is, you know, that book collecting enters, even enters the savings in one less.
Well, it's not.
But, you know, it's not book collecting, because he bought a collection.
He saw something that tickled his fancy, and he had all this money.
All the investors write.
Did you say, did you tell me that you
Can you give me any insight on Luke Feldman?
I knew him.
Okay, tell me about him.
Speak about Albach, about Feldman.
What do you want me to tell you?
I came in the scene fairly late.
Would he be the type of guy who could make an unorthodox deal?
Oh, sure.
Feldman was a flamboyant dealer in a modern sense.
I mean, the way he dressed and the kind of cane that he carried,
comported himself in the auction room.
He was very flamboyant.
That's really all I remember.
Was he honest?
Probably not.
No more so than anybody else.
He was flamboyant.
He just liked big deals.
He was involved in an awful lot of big deals.
He liked to be seen.
He liked to be heard.
One quote, and we can do this in a half an hour, too, by the way.
You had mentioned that
Book collecting, I guess I'm looking for the status, the state, the health of book collecting today as opposed to what it might have been 30 or 40 or 50 years ago.
You're not worried about the current recession.
You're talking about book collecting in general.
Even with the current recession, sure.
I think book collecting is very healthy.
Book collecting, somebody asked me the question last night when I made a presentation.
What you're dealing with here is a sleepy backwater
of the entire collecting horizon.
There's just nothing, you know, the things which strike you as being amusing, like Feldman or Mulholland or even more, okay, it's
minuscule compared to Deveen and to the Australian asshole that spent $69 million for Van Gogh and then went bankrupt.
I mean, you know, you're talking about... I saw that picture out of the gate, by the way.
But it's, you know, you're talking... It really... We're sort of... There's an enormous advantage to being a part of a relatively small and highly visible but unimportant part of the whole book world, of the entire collecting field.
books have appreciated at a fairly steady pace over the years, relatively unaffected by what goes on in the real world, and certainly relatively unaffected by extremes in the stock market or extremes in the art market.
Just because art has tripled,
Doesn't mean their books will triple.
Books will continue plotting along with over 5 to 10 percent a year.
I'm convinced of that.
Books never went down that severely during the Depression.
Well, they did, actually.
Not that severe.
After the Jerome Kern sale, the bottom fell out.
It took years to come back.
But it was inflated at that point.
But you're talking about a curve like this that maybe flattens out.
You're not talking about this kind of a thing as you are certainly in gold and in silver and in stamps and in coins and in the art world.
The art world now is looking at a fairly precipitous drop, potentially, in the next year or so.
The worst that'll happen in the book is it'll level up.
Well, how do you feel, and this is really jumping off the track, but how do you feel, say, about a self-beast who will back, was it Bond that spent $150 million?
Or he didn't spend, but they financed him.
He was willing to...
I just threw a letter yesterday from a finance house in California that's offering to finance purchases by any of our customers that we wish to refer to them.
So everybody's getting on the bandwagon.
How do you feel about it?
On the one hand, it's absurd.
I mean, it's completely contrary to the purpose of auction because what they're doing is they're fueling the buying frenzy.
On the other hand, it's probably smart business.
So it's not a clear-cut thing.
If you look at Sudby's balance sheet, they make a lot of money in real estate, they make a lot of money in their banking operation.
They don't make all that much money in pure auctions, from what I understand.
The auction business is a tough way to make money.
But if you've got sidelines, like banking and real estate... Financing.
That's just a personal feeling.
The reason I thought about it, you're talking about how the graph had gone like that, and I wonder if that had anything to do with these new incentives that some of your competitors have given to competitors.
I don't know.
With the economy, the Japanese who financed with very strong loan incentives finance the buying of oil,
had a lot to do with the teaching of the art market, a lot of which was bought at auction in the last few years, and Sotheby's does help that.
We're not in the art market.
Explain to me on tape, you did say one thing very interesting about your role, your niche in this scene.
You said there are really three auction houses in New York who deal in books and manuscripts.
You tend to deal exclusively in this area.
They go after the real big, dazzling Bradley Martin, Estelle Doheny big things.
And, you know, Glenn and Butter might be something else.
But then you did say that there's a battleground in between where you can test, where you kind of go after this.
You gave me a quote on that, which I thought was very good.
I'd love to have it on tape.
I don't remember what it was.
It was kind of like that.
We were talking about something like that.
What you've got is three houses that are capable of doing identical things.
And Subby's and Christie's role is defined.
The role of their book department is not defined by the book department.
I think it's really what it comes down to.
The role of the book department is defined as being a department in a major international enterprise.
Whereas the role of the book department is defined by the book department because that's all we are.
Given any particular item, with some exception, minor exception, given any particular item, we will get the same price, and it will sell to the same person, because there's only so many customers.
Again, that's not 100% true, but by and large, you've got the same people selling to the same people.
You've got the same buyers, the same sellers, and they've got a choice of three houses.
Absolutely.
case because i've been going to all these precautions and i mean i know everybody yeah the people i see here i've seen christie's i've seen it so do what so given given any item that's worth five ten fifteen twenty thousand dollars we'll get the same price okay but if there's but if there's a major collection of a certain kind we simply will never even get a chance at it you said there's a poor community last time we make a very good living selling things they don't touch but you said that there is that area five hundred dollars
$2,000.
Our bread and butter is $500 to $2,000, which is below their minimum.
For them to make the net, a lot of those people standing around there that park avenue.
If you walk in with a $1,500 book, the chances are you'll be rejected because it doesn't meet their minimum.
I think for a single walk-in, the minimum is $2,000.
On anything, probably.
Well, I'm not sure.
I don't have the book department.
What's your minimum?
Do you have a minimum?
No.
Well, it's a reasonable minimum.
If somebody walks in with a book worth $100, we won't take it.
If somebody walks in with a book worth $500 or $600,
We'll take it if it's interesting.
It depends.
If somebody walks in with a collection, that makes them a little morbid.
If somebody walks in with three books worth $1,000 and one is worth $100 and one is worth $800, we'll take it.
But 10 $100 books are just not worth the trouble.
Technically, our minimum consignment is $1,000.
But we have an enormous amount of flexibility.
how we exercise those minimums.
Now, when Arthur Freeman walked me through Quaritch in London, and he said, listen, as a practical matter, we can't sell a book for less than $100.
I mean, this is a deal of time.
That's true.
I said, look at this place.
You look in the overheads.
We have to get a minimum.
Minimum.
I mean, we won't sell anything.
Well, I mean, look, of course, I'm sure you're going to find things.
Yeah, part of that is ingenuous.
I mean, if somebody walks in with $50 in their hand,
and it ends up that nothing but people with $50 walk into your store, you better start selling things to them because you can stand on the principal not selling the owner for $100 and become principal in the backup situation.
So we're not going to go market towards the people with $50 in their pocket while we have the opportunity to market towards the people with stock.
But there is the overlap.
We compete constantly in the $2,000 to $20,000 range.
And our prices, we set as many record prices as they do.
It's as simple as that.
Any suggestions?
I think it would be really interesting what collectors are today, off the record, on the record.
In a way, we don't really know.
In many respects, you know, we talked about several names.
You know, you know, Manny.
You know, you know, kind of.
But people like people like Quaritch and Mags and Zimneys and
If there are major collectors, a lot of people don't come to auction, they work through a dealer.
And, you know, we may know who they are, but we're not sure who they are.
So an auction house really is not a good source to... Well, if Max pays a million dollars for a book, you know, it's going to Getty.
Okay, but, you know, but Getty's not a collector.
You know, Getty's an institution now.
I don't think he's buying it.
Just bought the Ptolemy for a month and a half.
Okay, I don't know.
So you don't know.
I don't know.
Listen, Corp buys a lot from us.
And I don't know and I don't care who they buy from.
I just want to keep buying.
We have about five minutes, I guess.
You just said there's something always there, something there for everyone.
Absolutely.
That was an inch of my talk last night.
Anybody who wants to collect books, in almost every sale, you can find something, whether it's early.
Because book collecting takes so many different forms.
You can collect by subject, you can collect by era, you can collect by illustrator, you can collect by author, you can collect by number of pages, you can collect by color of binding.
I could take you to any bookstore anywhere and I can show you something that would turn you on, no matter what you're interested in.
So in that sense, it's a very democratic pursuit.
Absolutely.
You can do it for almost no money at all.
You can choose to define your collection.
And you don't exclude that kind of person from your halls.
Well, in a way you'd exclude them.
Well, you can come in here and buy things for paying 50 bucks.
Yes, you can.
I'll tell you, I'm kicking my ass right now because I had a number last time and I didn't
I now find a book that's found really, sorry, it's called Cookery Books by Pennell's wife, Elizabeth Pennell.
Elizabeth Pennell.
I think they went for $350.
That's a pretty good price for that book.
But what I'm trying to say is, you know, I'm sorry I didn't buy that.
I mean, because I love what's holding up with my illustrated books.
You know, we don't, anybody who's interested in collecting, whether it's books or anything else, is welcome in an auction house.
Do we really have anything for them?
Not really.
I mean, if you're going to be a $50 collector, it's a terrible mistake to
to spend that money in an auction house.
Oh, I agree.
But in terms of... You'd rather deal with the dealers?
You'd rather do business with the dealers?
In the long run, the dealers are more important.
Well, because they're here all the time.
The collector's going to pay more money for the individual item.
Not necessarily true, but generally true.
But you can't figure it out.
Is that going to figure in the market for the dealer?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Dealers are bidding on commission for clients.
A lot of what they're buying here and the prices seem to be very high.
A dealer isn't going to put it in his inventory.
The higher the price of a book, the less of a marketer.
A dealer is, don't forget, a dealer is just like an auction house.
The most difficult thing in running an auction house is not finding customers, it's finding material to sell.
And the same is true with dealers.
The light blood of a dealer is not selling, it's acquiring material.
So if a good item comes up for sale, it's absolutely essential.
You talk to any dealer, there are dealers that go from book fair to book fair, they take a booth in a book fair, they couldn't give a shit if they sell anything.
They want to get to the other dealer's booth before anybody else does.
The higher the price of a book, the less of a spread there is between the buying price.
If a dealer buys a book for $50 or $100 or $200, sure, he's buying it at half of what he'll sell it.
The seller will be buying it for stock.
Right.
The higher the price, the greater the likelihood he's buying for a client.
I think that's a rule of thumb that you could apply.
I would apply that, sure.
I can't believe that somebody, I see some small dealers are paying $2,000, $3,000, $4,000 for a book.
They're not putting it in inventory.
If either got a commission and they make a 10% markup,
Or they have a pretty good idea who they're going to sell it to.
And because, look, remember one thing.
The auction price is public knowledge.
You can't buy a $5,000 book and offer it for $12,000.
But a lot of people do.
And some get away with it, some don't.
But there are dealers who will not buy it.
Well, dealers I won't name because I was at all the Bradley Martin sales.
And I saw especially the American Literature sale.
And it was advertised as Bradley Martin's own copy.
Yeah, but did you check the cost?
I kept notes and everything.
I got all the prices.
Oh, but check your cost.
Dealers, I've seen a lot of Bradley Martin stuff in the market now, and it's marked up maybe 25%, maybe 30%, and maybe a little more research as Madonna.
I haven't found things that have been doubled or tripled.
But then again, what's wrong with that?
What, doubling or tripling?
Yeah.
Well, you run the risk of being called a Donut.
That you're, what do you call it, a...
An opportunist or whatever?
Look, there are dealers who will not buy at the auction because then the cost is known.
There's something... If you go into a... Look, it's human nature.
If you go into a store and you buy something, no matter how much you want it, you buy that tie and you spend $60 for a tie, it would really infuriate me if I know that the store paid $15 for that tie.
It's probably what they paid for it.
It may be, but if I really knew it... Now, the market is 100%, and that's why I buy on sale.
The market is only 50%.
But, you know, it's that kind of thing.
People don't want to be told that the dealer has made an enormous profit off him, especially if he's a good customer.
You're my good customer, and I'm a dealer.
I have you in mind.
Listen, I bought this at Bradley Martin.
I had you in mind, and I'll sell it to you at only a 10% markup.
How can you turn it down?
But if I offer it to you a double, and you can read the catalog as well as I can, you'll say, my God, what a crook.
But then there's another whole...
separate psychology, it could also be operating two other ones.
One is, somebody could buy it at Martin, advertise it for a hugely inflated price as a promotional gimmick for themselves to a public who read the words Martin in the newspapers but really doesn't know what the hell was going on, just for name recognition.
And you don't know what the guy sold it for, actually, if he finally unloaded the book.
You can advertise it for anything and make the same percent above view it.
The dealer's prices are very suspect.
I hope you know that.
How do you mean?
Look at dealer's catalogs.
You say, oh, he got $4,000.
No, he's asking $4,000 for that.
10% discount, no sweat.
20% discount sometime.
And a 30% discount occasionally.
Especially if it goes from one catalog to the next.
Well, no.
No, it depends with the buyers.
And there are many people
who in the book business feel that they can't negotiate.
So would a dealer.
You know, a dealer is no different than anybody else.
If I ask for $4,000 for that book, and you're going to pay me $4,000, I'm not going to offer you a discount.
On the other hand, if you ask for a discount, I might grant it to you.
Scheide was that late, Mr. Scheide's father.
I went to all of Rosenbach's correspondence in Philadelphia, and he was a bicker.
I mean, you bought the Google Word Bible for a minute.
And you start to say, well, there's a couple of leaves missing now.
We're just trying to beat them down on the tracks.
No, but that's absolutely invaluable.
Yeah.
I think we've got some good stuff here.
I guess the difference between book selling today, and not necessarily in the auction business, but book dealers, and say on a Rosenbach day, is that guys like Krugs and Rosenbach would buy big ticket items for stock.
And what you just said is when you see a big-ticket item, you can just assume that he's buying that somewhere.
It's hard to generalize.
And I'm not sure that you're right.
My guess is that when Krauss or Rosenbach or the Drakes or anybody else bought big items for stock,
I'll give you a good quote.
You never have too many good quotes.
What the hell?
How does it go?
Something to the effect of, when I buy books, I never make mistakes.
When I make a mistake, it becomes my inventory.
So Rosenbach will buy something with Goheny in mind, or with Flagler in mind, or with Huntington in mind.
And there's Bell Green in mind.
Fine, but they don't buy it.
Lo and behold, it becomes inventory.
So he makes a mistake.
Now, there are cases.
Hey, Krauss clearly bought a Gutenberg for publicity.
And he makes no bones about it in his book.
So, sure, there are cases.
But I don't think that the basic nature of the book business has changed that much.
I think human nature is the same.
I think the nature of book selling is the same.
I think the psychology of book selling is essentially the same.
Psychology of collecting as well.
And I think the psychology of collecting as well.
Absolutely.
I don't even know where it goes.
Why should it change?
Human nature stays the same.
All this change is pricing.
What's changing?
Pace changes.
General Harry can't give away today for instance.
Prices change.
The mechanics change and the fax machine has changed.
Trading and collected enormously.
So has the telephone.
What you don't find anymore
is the charming idea of Mr. Rosenbach taking a suitcase full of books and taking a train across the country to San Marino, California.
That's right.
Those stories are marvellous.
And, you know, he gets invited to dinner, and he always sold something, and he knew just what to put in his suitcase.
One of the final letters that Huntington wrote Rosenbach, which I'm having copied, is that you're certainly welcome to come and stay at the ranch
But don't bring any books.
I'm not trying anymore.
That essentially is really the beginning.
I think the style has changed.
People aren't so elegant.
People don't write so much anymore.
You pick up the phone.
You go through correspondence and you'd have four letters about the sale of a $20 book.
Now you make one phone call to sell a $10,000 book.
So those have changed.
But the basic nature of it.
And the Scheide case, for instance, I went to all of Rosenbach's correspondence with John Scheide, someone named Gutenberg, and then it ends.
And I don't know what they paid for it.
I bet.
Well, what happened is I know exactly what happened.
There was finally a Western Union telegram set, and it's there.
I have to see you out in Titusville.
So he went out, and it was done face to face.
So the deal went down face to face.
So the correspondence, which is wonderful, tracing the whole background,
It doesn't have the last day.
I mean, I would, you know, you want things to pursue.
Yes, I would love it.
You know, one of the questions last night was what effect does taxation have on collecting?
Oh, it's changed the whole thing.
The collector is now... But which piece of which collecting has taxation?
Well, the private collector is now preeminent again in the not giving stuff to institutions.
Institutions have really been hurt by it because you can't write off gifts.
That's not...
I don't know about taxation in terms of buying and selling if you sell a book.
I'm not sure you want to put it in your book, but in a sense.
It might have to do with investing.
You have an underground economy.
Books are being bought and sold.
As investments.
No, they're being bought and sold, and it's an undeclared form of investment.
If I buy security, I've got to report it.
You've got to report the purchase and the sale.
But if I've got a thing going, if I'm a dealer and you're a collector, and you and I are sort of trading books back and forth, I mean, technically it's the same as trading securities, isn't it?
But how many people do you think report those transactions?
Trading and what?
You mean trading in the... Trading enough.
I've got three copies of Don Quicksit, so I'll trade you my two Quicksits for a da-da-da.
You're either upgrading your collection or you're trading things.
I bought something in London, and you're not only my dealer, but you're my friend.
I mean, this goes on all the time.
Well, Chef Louis Zatmari, you know him?
He told me he did a lot of consulting stuff.
And he got paid and booked.
And he said, well, what I would do is tell him, he said, well, we want to give you some money.
And I'd say, well, you know, I don't want any money, but
If you go down the street in such and such a bookstore, there's a wonderfully tunable there.
It probably costs $1,000 or something like that.
It's a barter.
He would have that thing delivered by messenger within 24 hours.
It's a barter scheme.
And that never got reported in his income tax.
And he said that to me on the records.
That's why I'm repeating.
Well, I'm saying if you, not on the record, not on the record, but basically, I don't know if it really affects the market, but I think it's an interesting sidelight.
It is.
Which is interesting to me.
You know, most people, most collectors who either buy and sell books or trade books aren't really doing it for the profit, and yet in the process, frequently do make a profit.
A serious collector isn't it for the money, anyway.
Well, it's a bad way to make money.
Sure.
Especially if you're buying from dealers.
Because it's going to be very bad to recruit.
Uh-uh.
Go back to him no more.
He did very well.
Are you sure could he not?
We don't know that.
We're pretty sure.
We don't know what they paid for a lot of these things.
But talk about that.
Considering the prices he made money.
I'd be very interested to see what he paid Fleming for a lot of these things, because I knew off the record what he paid him for a lot of these things.
No, but there's enough items that came up with that.
Well, the Cervantes was expected to go for $250,000.
It goes for $1.65 million.
The Shakespeare's, he paid $165,000.
Well, they got $2 million.
All right, so there are two items right there.
That will take care of the rest of the loan.
That will take care of a lot of mistakes.
Yeah, yeah.
You've given me more time.
Thank you very much.
I'm available.
It happens to be very busy.